# The Mobile App's Skeleton

The Humon app is going to have two view controllers:

1. The initial view will be a large map view with pins for events that are near you. It will also contain a button for creating a new event.

2. The views for creating and viewing an event will be very similar. The view will be a table with cells for the address, name, and time of an event. The only difference is that the text fields for creating an event will be editable.

We can either create our view controllers programatically or use Storyboards. 
Storyboards are incredibly useful tools for visually laying out an app's view controllers.
Apple provides a good introduction to Interface Builder and 
[Storyboards](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/recipes/xcode_help-IB_storyboard/_index.html)
in their Developer Library.

### Place New Controllers into the Storyboard

Open the Main.storyboard file and toggle the utilities sidebar on the right.

IMAGE OF SIDEBAR

Drag a `navigation controller` from the object library at the bottom of the utilities sidebar to the storyboard.
Now your storyboard will contain a `view controller`, a `navigation controller` and a `table view controller`.

IMAGES OF BAD VIEW CONTROLLERS IN STORYBOARD

However, this configuration isn't exactly what we want.
We want the `navigation controller` to contain our two view controllers: 1. the map `view controller` and 2. the event `table view controller`.
We also want a button on the `view controller` to show the `table view controller`.

IMAGE OF GOOD VIEW CONTROLLERS IN STORYBOARD

### Connect the Controllers within the Storyboard

1. Drag the large arrow, which represents the entry point into the story board, from the `view controller` to the `navigation controller`.
We want the entry point to be the `navigation controller` since it will contain the other two controllers.

2. The `table view controller` is currently called the `root view controller`, but we don't want that to be our `table view controller`'s title.
To remove that autogenerated title, select the `root view controller` navigation item in the storyboard's document outline.
With the navigation item selected, you can change the title in the attributes inspector in the utilities sidebar to "Event Table View Controller".

IMAGE OF DOCUMENT OUTLINE
IMAGE OF ATTRICUTES INSPECTOR

3. Select and delete the arrow between the `navigation controller` and the `table view controller`.
We don't want the root of the `navigation controller` to be the `table view controller`.
We want the root of the `navigation controller` to be the `view controller`.
Hold down `ctrl` and drag from the `navigation controller` to the `view controller` and select "root view controller" from the pop up.
Now the `view controller` is the root of the `navigation controller`.

4. We want to link the `view controller` to the `table view controller` via a button.
Drag a `bar button item` from the object library at the bottom of the utilities sidebar into the navigation bar at the top of the `view controller`.
Hold down `ctrl` and drag from the `bar button item` to the `table view controller` and select "show" from the pop up.

5. The `view controller` is currently blank, but we want that view controller to contain a full-screen map view.
Drag a `map kit view` from the object library at the bottom of the utilities sidebar into the `view controller`.
Resize the map view to be the full size of the `view controller`.

IMAGE OF CURRENT VIEW CONTROLLER IN STORYBOARD

6. If you like, you can rearrange the `navigation controller`, `view controller`, and `table view controller` in the storyboard so all the segues or "arrows" are pointing to the right.

7. Now run the app and see that the initial view controller has changed to a `navigation controller` with a map `view controller`. Tap on the `bar button item` to see the event `table view controller`.
